    <!-- #               ART EXHIBIT AT EL AMIGO'S>
    The Art Exhibit at El Amigo’s is an open event held to showcase different kinds of local, creative, abstract, and historical pieces of art In the vicinity of the restaurant. It occurred on August 18, 2023, 6:00 PM at the El Amigo's Restaurant and it was open the whole night for everyone to see. The goal of this event is to make other people aware of different local art pieces and crafts to other people especially foreigners as they were the majority in the exhibit's guests.

    The exhibit was phenomenal and it taught us more about the essence of local art and its beauty. The amount of artpieces displayed and other local products surprised me as there were a lot present and there was a lot to learn and gain from them. The best part of this exhibit is the fact that I got to be there with my friends in order to live the experience together and learn more about the local works of our country.

    The benefits of this exhibit was that it was able to give us insights about local arts and products that we've never seen before. It even taught us about how its patterns work and their various symbolisms and purposes that they hold. These artworks can be applied as something that can inspire me to explore my artistic side more and it can teach me a lot more ways to express myself especially in a local way as all of these works are local.

    Because of this exhibit, I am more knowledgable about what our local artists and curators have in store and how they show their creative prowess.
    
    <!-- #               PHYSICAL THERAPY OPEN HOUSE>
    The Physical Therapy Open House event was held during the Hibalag season for the IRS department to open the Angelo King building for outsiders and visitors to see the different things physical therapy has to offer in terms of their facilities, labs, learning resources and illustrations that they use in their education. Anyone is welcome and everyone are grouped into batches and are toured around by various PT students around the building. As the tour went on, the tour guides would also tackle various PT topics that would be relevant to the facility theyre showing. I went to this event in order to support my friends in Physical Therapy and in order to learn more about their course.

    My expectations with this activity is that I would get to feel how is it being a physical therapy student and how their classes would feel like. My expectations were met in every way as they showed me the classrooms and the facilities they use in great detail. I was also surprised by the amount of resources and materials they would need to use to understand their lessons like models of the muscles, tissues, skeletal system, nervous system and many more. Learning about tidbits of information about those were the best part of the event

    The activity gave me a lot of new learnings and taught me many fun facts about even the smallest things in Physical therapy that could be helpful and useful in the future. Especially, when we could use the information to help those in need and to help our close friends and loved ones whenever they would have problems and we could be able to give them some little advice. The very helpful physical health-related information are one of the greatest benefits you can gain from this event.

    Because of this event, I am more knowledgable and well-informed about Physical Therapy and how students learn Physical Therapy.

    <!-- #               BALIK TALENT LECTURES 1&2>
    The Balik Talent Lectures are a series of lectures that occurred during mid-Hibalag season that talked about different helpful things about careers, work, strategies and how to thrive in the current society. It was held at ATA Hall, on August 22 and 24, 2023 both occurred on 2 PM. The goal was to ensure CCS Students how they should think and prepare for their future and future responsibiolites. The first Balik Talent Lecture was named "Syntaxes, Strategies, and Stories" by Mr. Ernest Dale M. Acar and the second Balik Talent Lecture was named "Success: It's All About the Mindset" by Ms. Louel Lariba. As a CCS Student, I was able to join both of the lectures and got to finish them on both of the mentioned days

    The Speakers for these lectures met my expectations and hopes as they were able to share and express their stories and experiences very well to us CCS Students. The event's speakers were definitely the highlights of these lectures and they did their role well as a core part of the event. There were just at times where I felt bad that I had to be excused for practices for the Parada Sillimania during these lectures which means I missed some parts of the lecture but it's all fine.

    The lectures gave me a lot of insight and different perspectives from both of their experiences regarding career, future and success. One taught us about strategies and solutions while the other taught us about how important our motivations and aspirations are for our goal to achieve success. A lot of these learnings and insights can be applied in our lives but not just in us CCS Students but also for other people as they continue forth to their future.

    Because of this lecture, I am more knowledgable and aware of what I should be doing for the sake of my future and success.

    <!-- #               CCS GUIDANCE COUNSELLING ACTIVITY>
    The CCS Guidance Counselling Activity is another event held during Hibalag season organized by our College Guidance Counselor, Mrs. Rhea Albon Cadalina on August 23, 2023, 4:00 PM at ATA Hall. It was held in separate dates because the CCS Freshmen students were in separate batches and our batch's activity was held at that date. The event was all about adjusting to the new environment of being in college and going back to face to face classes again. It was also aimed to also make us CCS Freshmen more acquianted with each other through fun and games.

    I liked the activity a lot as it gave us a lot of time to have fun with each other and be comfortable with everyone in my batch as we begin to play more games and we get to share and know about each other more. The best parts of this event were the series of different games that were meaningful and fun for everybody. Our guidance counselor did a very well job facilitating this event and making us enjoy all the more.

    The activity influenced me more to socialize and be more comfortable with my fellow batchmates as we go through our freshmen year together. I gained many insights and learnings from our guidance counselor about how the activity affects us, connects us and brings us together. This activity can give out many benefits as it can help us all to adjust to a new environment and setting such as "college" that can be deemed scary and unfamiliar to us.

    Because of this activity, I am able to give more importance to the connection and relationships I make in my batch whether inside or outside of the classroom.

    <!-- #               COINSPECT PHILIPPINES INC. INDUSTRY LECTURE>
    The Coinspect Philippine Inc. Industry Lecture is a formal lecture held on Aug. 25, 2023, 2:00 PM at ATA Hall organized by Jomar B. Colao who is a software engineer. The audience are us, CCS Freshmen students, as we listen to the speaker talk about his experiences, advices and tips that we could use not only in the Philippine Industry and other companies but also in our personal goals and careers. This is a separate lecture from the Balik Talents one as it is not connected to those lectures in particular.

    Our speaker did an outstanding job on telling us about the ups and downs, pros and cons, and possibilities that could happen to us in the future especially once we start working or achieving our professions. The speaker surprised me with his vast experience and his skills on how he can share advices with us. He was truly the highlight of this event, and we were glad as CCS students to have the honor and privilege to hear his lecture.

    The event gave me a lot of new insights and learnings from the speaker's experiences and challenges that he had to face in his journey. These learnings can be used and applied not only for our future but also in our present day to day lives as we are nearing the time where we will start to be independently working. This event gives us the one of the most benefits for our future careers and professions as he ensures us that as long as we know what to do and we know where to go, we will be in the right hands sooner enough.

    Because of this lecture, I am becoming more thoughtful and wise about my actions in my future and how I will handle future challenges.

    <!-- #               UNIVERSITY WIDE ORIENTATION>
    The University Wide Orientation is held for the freshmen students of Silliman University on September 6, 2023, 2:00 PM at the Luce Auditorium. It was organized by Silliman University in order to orient and immerse us in the environment of college and to make us aware of the various available services that are offered to us students. The goal of this program is so that us students are taught well about what comes and goes in college and in the university and how we can use it to our advantage for the greater good.

    The activity is very useful and very impactful in a sense that it enables us students to use these different services by Silliman University and it also orients us on how we can be treated as a connected and harmonious community. Despite the actual orientation, the event surprised me with its three intermission numbers, notingly the community singing, the performance number performed by the male glee club and a play that was executed through a voiceover. These performances were astounding and it was able to entertain us students so that we won't grow bored as the orientation goes on. These performances were the highlights of the event as they expressed us their talents, their strong bond and their relatable and funny reenactment of a normal day in Silliman University.

    The orientation gave me a lot of new insights on the different things the school offers for the sake of us students. Such as the different health-related services that can be detrimental for a lot of people and even the office of student services themselves that can help us answer more questions about the available services of Silliman. This can be applied in my day to day life in Silliman as a great benefit for the journey of my school year as it reassures me that I can be safe, and satisfied with my experience in the Silliman campus.

    Because of this orientation, I am able to know more about the services of Silliman that can help me go through this freshman year.

    <!-- #               COLLEGE OF COMPUTER STUDIES ORIENTATION>
    The College of Computer Studies Orientation is held on September 20, 2023, 9:00 AM at the ATA Hall organized by the college for freshmen students of CCS. This orientation was organized in order to inform and orient CCS students about the various requirements, prerequisites and grade specifications of each program that the college offers, the policies and guidelines of the college, the faculty and staff of the college and the various facilities made to be used by CCS students. 

    The activity was very informative and it oriented us on all of the things we would need to get started on our freshman year in CCS. It taught me about how the grading system works and how the various systems and policies work in the various CCS courses and programs. The best thing about the event is the fact that, since I am a part of the technical committee, I am able to help and operate the powerpoint presented in the orientation and it was a great privilege in doing so with my other committee mates.

    The event gave me a lot of new insights about how I could survive the journey in CCS, and taught me do's and dont's that I should follow so that I could be able to stay and survive the next following years to come. This gives me a good start onto my journey in CCS as it makes me aware of where I should go to and who are the other teachers and staff I could approach for certain situations. The orientation gave a lot of benefits to freshmen students in terms of information and it served as a good starting point for all of us

    Because of this orientation, I am well-informed about everything I need to know and be mindful of about the College of Computer Studies
    
    <!-- #               ALL-DORMITORY ORIENTATION ON LEGAL ISSUES>
    The All-Dormitory Orientation on Legal Issues is an optional event for Silliman University dormers to attend that actively discusses about the legal policies implemented onto the dormitories and also the Silliman Campus. It is organized by the Student Housing and Residence Division, and Office of Student Services on September 20, 2023, 7:00 PM at the Luce Auditorium. I got to attend the event because I am a dormer from the Doltz Hall dormitory.

    As a resident of the Doltz Hall dormitory, the orientation was helpful, informative and influential as it taught us about the different legal acts and policies that are detrimental to the security and safety of the dormers and other students in Silliman. Especially the safe spaces act and the act regarding about fraternities and the such are important in achieving the peace and harmony in the Silliman Campus. The best parts was the Q&A or open forum portion because the dormers that were able to ask questions talked about certain possibilities that could go uncaught within these acts which stirred an intriguing discussion.

    The orientation gave me a lot of new insights about these new acts as they are recently implemented onto the Philippines' government and it is able to help us along the way. These acts can be used and applied to our advantage as it can aid us whenever were in trouble in any situation especially in terms of abuse and bullying. The orientation is a big benefit for the dormers as we are the ones that stay overnight in the school campus.

    Because of this orientation, I am more informed about the different legal acts implemented and will use these in the future just in case.